that what's going on now everything's
falling
apart and every institution can't be
trusted every official is corruptible it
would be quite a conspiracy you have
rivers that are on fire it's going
[__] crazy so the question is do do
those things have anything to do with
each other or is it just
coincidental that's my godfather Phil
stuts if you recognize him it might be
because Jonah Hill made a Netflix
documentary about him a year ago called
stuts but why did Jonah Hill make a
movie about my godfather well Phil is an
alien specifically he's a gray from Zeta
reticuli and it's time that the public
know the hard truth about my family and
its Origins just kidding but Phil does
have an almost Clairvoyant ability to
size anybody up instantaneously tell
them where they're blocked and give them
some viable routes forward in life most
people don't know he was also the
Riker's Island prison psychiatrist for 5
years so evaluated and helping people
was almost a matter of life or death for
him from the start what are some words
you'd use to describe rker is hell in
his early 30s Phil became Afflicted with
a mysterious condition called chronic
fatigue syndrome the condition involves
extreme and constant exhaustion he could
barely get out of bed when it first hit
but this breakdown was bizarrely
generative he found a turn of the
century Austrian philosopher named
Rudolph Steiner who came to Define his
worldview and influence his practice
and he also started to attract some of
the most impressive people in the world
as patients if you're a fan of this
channel you know I'm interested in some
pretty out there topics fringe science
UFOs and the Mysterious nature of our
reality here I wanted to give you a
glimpse of my biggest childhood
influences that opened me up to the
prospect that life is a little more
trippy than we realize in the first
place not only am I talking about Phil
I'm also talking about my dad Barry
Michaels Phil's longtime business
business partner who helped develop
Phil's ideas and communicate them to the
world I'm so lucky to have my dad as a
father he's one of the hardest working
and most inspiring people I know and
he's turned around the lives of
countless people CEOs of billion dollar
companies actors producers directors
some of whom were on the verge of
self-destruction before seeing him a lot
of this is outlined in a great New
Yorker profile on him called Hollywood
Shadows together Phil and my dad wrote A
New York Times best-selling book called
the tools and a followup called coming
alive their practice involves mental
visualizations they give their patients
for facing daunting everyday situations
unlike traditional cognitive behavioral
therapy these visualizations incorporate
archetypal yian symbology if all of this
sounds a little wacky or insane or like
a ridiculous La cliche it does to me too
but whatever Phil and my dad are doing
empirically seems to work due to
confidentiality we can't get into their
patients identities but Phil and my dad
are paid homage to in a few popular
movies and shows that you might be
familiar with in this interview I wanted
to get a little deeper with both of them
on the laws of human nature what
motivates people what to do when faced
with the most desperate and dark
situations and how to reconcile the
sometimes very disperate and conflicted
sides of oneself we also get into their
favorite philosophers and some of the
esoteric inspiration for a lot of their
work we taped this a year ago but it
feels all the more relevant as the world
seems to be going absolutely nuts with
social isolation geopolitical turmoil
and late stage capitalist decadence it
also felt important for me to put this
out now and not just sit on it because
both my dad and Phil are facing some not
super fun health challenges but this
episode is a celebration of their work
and Legacy so without further Ado please
welcome this week's amazing American Al
ists Phil STS and my father Barry
Michaels before we get started I wanted
to give a huge shout out to today's
sponsor surf shark VPN if you're into
this show and like researching crazy and
sometimes dangerous topics like UFOs and
anti-gravity you probably care about
keeping your identity Anonymous while
surfing the web you also probably want
uncensored access to the best sources of
information on all these edgy
controversial topics and you want want
this uncensored access wherever you
happen to be in the world surf shark
keeps your online identity hidden by
encrypting all of the information sent
between your device and the internet so
data harvesting companies and third
parties can't track you and
cybercriminals can't hack you a VPN
works by swapping the real location of
your device with a new IP address from
anywhere around the world and it secures
personal information when you use Wi-Fi
outside of your home as you know public
Wi-Fi can be an absolute gold mine for
hackers but that's not all surf shark's
clean web feature blocks ads trackers
malware and fishing attempts allowing
you to surf the web safely so take full
advantage of surf shark's thousands of
servers distributed across a 100
countries allowing you to access and
unblock all of your favorite content
like all of your favorite Netflix
libraries while you're on the road again
this allows you to bypass censorship and
keep your data safe one of the
decision-making Frameworks I learned
from my dad and Phil is a concept called
regret minimization do the thing that
you're least likely to regret in the
future so do your future self a favor
and protect yourself from data
harvesting hacking and tracking with
surf shark don't wait around for
somebody to steal your information use
good web hygiene and use code American
Alchemy to get an extra whole 3 months
for free you can also just click the
link in the description below surf shark
also offers a 30-day money back
guarantee so there's literally no risk
in trying this out and now back to my
dad and
Phil so uh the Netflix documentary was
pretty crazy I feel like it's gotten a
lot of a claim like it's it's really a
it's really blown things up your
voicemail is now if you're calling about
the Netflix documentary or calling about
therapy because you saw the Netflix
documentary um please you know it's a
referral to our website you know where
they can get a tools train therapist
deflection yeah it's calmed down a
little bit I would say I'm getting
maybe 7 to 10 calls a week and they
leave messages despite the fact that I'm
telling them not to leave mess oh that's
funny how do they get your number you
think like Google or something have no
idea that's it's so strange I guess
people's numbers are pretty findable
yeah how do you think you do you think
you were sort of faded to become a
psychotherapist do you think like your
childhood you know within that were the
seeds of your profession definitely but
not quite as directly as as you just
described it I I knew really from a
pretty early age that
I really wanted to and felt bound to
have as positive an effect as I could on
people's lives for a long time I thought
that was going to take the form of going
into politics actually it never occurred
to me to be a therapist and then
gradually it morphed into well maybe
this is the most direct one-on-one way
that I can affect people in their lives
and the more I did it the more I
realized without being a modest I'm
really good at that you know I'm really
good at that so it became one of those
things that I think I knew from the
beginning I was meant to do and then
realized oh I'm good at it you know what
why do you think you're good at
it I I think partly I grew up in a
family that was disposed toward
self-examination and Analysis probably a
little too much so frankly like one of
the lessons I had to learn in life was
excuse the language shut the [__] up and
just enjoy life you know a little bit
you don't have to examine every single
thing that you do or say right but um
yeah I think it partly was that um
partly I
think I was always very
self-examining like not self-questioning
but just like why am I thinking that
thought or why am I having those urges
or you know whatever it is because I had
a Natural Curiosity about myself and I I
don't think it veered into narcissism or
anything but it did dispose me toward
thinking of what are the unconscious
motivations that are operating right now
in you know in yourself uh I didn't
often find an answer but at least I was
disposed to disposed to questioning it
yeah and at what point does
self-examination become narcissistic cuz
I look at a lot of the coastal boua
class or whatever and it feels like this
sort of bottomless soup schmorgus Board
of like just masturbator yeah you have
like a um yeah you have like a menu of
like eight things that you do for
yourself and like none of them quite
work and you're still unhappy and you
kind of consume them un you know un
consciously so what yeah what's the
difference between that and meaningful
progress to me it becomes masturbatory
when the purpose is no longer to have a
positive impact on the people around you
or on the world around you when in other
words when it's just self-examination
for its own sake that to me is kind of a
bad sign it's really disguised
narcissism frankly and I think that what
prevents it from doing that is that you
adhere to a specific goal am I trying to
get myself to do something that I
typically avoid am I trying to get
myself to stop losing my temper am I
trying to get myself to stop putting
myself down in my head even small goals
like that yeah can root or anchor the
work in reality and in something that's
actually achievable time there's also I
think there are a lot of people that
like it's like they want to stop
everything and heal themselves or
something so before they can like are
ready to do anything they feel some like
primordial childhood pain that they have
to like get over before they do
something in the real world and I think
it's probably more complicated than that
where it's like you solve the pain
partially by like trying to do something
in the real world and and by working on
it and self-examining if you don't have
the self-examination I think that's
probably pretty unhealthy yeah but you
know what I mean like where people are
like you know I'm I'm going to heal
myself and then they go to South America
they do iasco like 10 times a month or
something right I don't really believe
in removing yourself from real life to
work on something and then returning an
improved person I'm not saying that that
um can't be helpful in certain kind of
extreme cases like for example if you
have somebody who's a severe drug addict
or a severe alcoholic it's actually good
for them to go on Retreat a sober
Retreat where they learn the rules of
sobriety and practice 12 steps you know
Etc ET ET before they return to society
but mostly mostly for most of us I think
problems get solved in the real world as
the problems occur and you use new Tools
in addressing those problems yeah I
think for me something that's been
challenging has been like growing up
with you and having being privy to a lot
of kind of more interesting kind of
esoteric knowledge or whatever and then
thinking that that exonerates me from
like the trials and tribulations of like
everyday life which is really like the
reality itself is set up in a way to
challenge you to become your best self
and that's like the most sacred
interesting thing there is the benal uh
challenge of of like the small stuff not
like some esoteric knowledge yes yes or
maybe the to put it differently any
esoteric true esoteric knowledge you get
comes from like day-to-day Behavior or
something yeah a lot of mystical
Traditions would not even allow you to
study you know the esoterica that they
propagated until you were like in in
your well into your 30s yeah cabala
you're not supposed to do it until
you're 35 great example yeah they wanted
you rooted in the material world they
wanted you dealing with material
supposed to have like a spouse and be
grounded yeah yeah which makes sense I
mean it's like I live alone in Laurel
cany and read about conspiracies all day
and it's not exactly like the best
ingredients for like mental health
exactly I love there's a Nichi quote
which is like the measure of a
man um is or a man is measured by how
much truth he can accommodate without
descending into madness wow and there's
something
about you know like uh developing sort
of a higher spiritual sense or
Clairvoyance or something which is like
um two steps forward one step back and
almost you're almost responsibly moving
into a state of psychosis or something
you know that's
particularly
um moving in ni's case because he did
descend into that's right you know I
think syphilis aided in that descent but
maybe but also from a psychological or
spiritual point of view
he
he told a lot of truths that no one was
willing to look at totally at the time
and yeah Academia shunned him and who
knows that that didn't send him over the
edge yeah he was a genius he was a a
genius and totally not socialized in a
way that I think Geniuses often are you
know the story of his Madness are you
talking about like the the looking at
the cows leaping in the fields or what
you no there was a there was an EP he
was already beginning to descend into
madness but there was a particular
incident where he was he was living in
Vienna at the time and he looked out his
window and I watched a Coachman you know
there were no cars at that time Coachman
was um flogging his horse just
mercilessly flogging his horse nii ran
downstairs ran out to The Coachman threw
his arms around the around the horse
that's right and then never
recovered I went mad at that
[Music]
so it's almost like he was so overtaken
with his compassion for this animal
that's wild he couldn't take it yeah I
don't know why this that reminded me of
this but at the end of his life nicolea
Tesla fell in love with a pigeon he
lived in this uh apartment near Bryant
Park and he would like write love
letters to this pigeon and like thought
that the pigeon was you know in love
with him and he was also you know
totally anti social character who was
ripped off by everybody around him
right I don't know it is yeah I think
there is something on the you know on
the edge of Madness and I am by no means
advocating Madness or anything like that
go crazy but there's something about the
Deep empathy that you can feel toward
another living being particularly of not
of your own species that comes to
Encompass a kind of
um I don't know kind of Beauty in the
world that's hard to bear in a certain
way yeah totally yeah and I guess the
the challeng or the goal is to like
properly reintegrate As you move towards
that greater worldly empathy or whatever
exactly because I think if you if you do
too much all at once I I don't think
that that's really healthy and there's a
whole strain of our culture in fact that
I think romanticizes that romantic
Madness you know of NIS and of Teslas or
whatever and I you know the the
important thing is if you're going to
skate on that edge you have to be very
strong strongly rooted in reality or you
can actually lose your mind yeah to
totally I mean some of my favorite
people are sort of considered were
considered crazy in their time or even
are considered a little crazy now yeah
it's interesting but I think that that
um vertical tether where you get these
interesting downloads often comes from
not being as horizontally Tethered to
the social Matrix or whatever and it's
just this I don't know tradeoff by the
way your use of that as a metaphor I
think is really important the the the
horizontal tether is in the here and now
what am I doing to move myself through
time in other words I'm moving
horizontally the vertical tether is
there's something much greater than me
going on here at all times and I have no
idea whether this has any relevance or
not but if you think about it that's the
cross ah the horizontal and the vertical
in a certain way I don't I don't know
that Christians actually believe this
but this is my interpretation and I'm
not a Christian yeah my interpretation
of that is that you we're responsible
for two Dimensions simultaneously the
dimension in which we move forward
willfully through time and yet
constantly in each each present moment
stay Tethered to something greater than
ourselves that's really cool then you
become a living cross in a certain way I
love that I love that that's kind of um
this is a philosopher Rene Gerard and he
talks about you know horizont the
horizontal tether would be like Mimis
like the imitate the inherently
imitative nature of human beings and um
the hor the the um sorry the vertical
tether would be uh the kingdom of Heaven
sort of residing within you or you know
God the Divine or the Holy Spirit or
something and uh yeah I don't know I I
think the more I actually descend into
my own Madness and think about the
nature of reality I I think that um you
know I'm I'm I'm I'm getting interested
in like a lot of the
quantum uh spookiness or whatever like
entanglement and stuff like that the the
more I think about it my model of
reality is like sort of um probable
Futures and probable P the present is
like a handshake between the future and
the past or something in a in a weird
way and um and it's like the the the
present is somehow like a collapsing
function of those things and their
Dimensions what do you mean collapsing
it's a it's a I think I think there are
dimensions Beyond this one where time is
happened time isn't really a factor
where it's sort of happening
simultaneously and so I think and I
think when you get to certain levels of
sub atomic scale uh the the time Factor
starts to break down and so like things
like entanglement can actually be
explained by like
retrocausality and instead the classic
double slit experiment can be can like I
think John archabald Wheeler a famous
mid-century physicist figured out that
if you you know uh detect the electron
mid-flight it actually retrocausal retr
causally changes the electron from from
the start of it being shot you know
towards the double slit or whatever and
um I I I think I think things sort of
break down TimeWise on a subatomic scale
on a very small scale and so I think
there's a dimension Beyond ours that is
uh time
agnostic maybe and then the the present
is like a it's sort of a product of our
epistemology as humans and uh you know
it's like almost like a the
instantiation of the demiurge metaphor
is like time M and um and we and the way
we perceive it I'm not I'm now I sound
like a skitso but I have no idea what
you're talking about but yeah it doesn't
sound schizophrenic to me okay thanks
the one Association I have with what
you're saying is that that handshake
coming from the past and the handshake
coming from the future they meet in the
Eternal present MH and to me that's
where human Free Will has some relevance
it doesn't have complete control but it
has some relevance as to how I take
what's coming from the past and use it
to move into the future and I believe
that if you're conscious of that least
you get more of a sense of ongoing
coherence ongoing purpose in your life H
how do you develop that because I'm not
going to lie so I I um obviously adhere
to the tools and and think that you know
that's very empowering having like these
um mental regimens you can go through in
situations that you typically face in
your life that might set you off in
certain ways uh but then I'm also
somewhat sympathetic to the law of
attraction I just don't like the way
it's written about I think it's written
about in a sort of Escapist like um you
you just can think your way into things
or whatever if I think this then I'll
attract this but I've experienced it
before I've experienced like the ility
to sort of quote unquote manifest stuff
the question I have is like sometimes I
I I feel a thing and I'm like this is I
I feel this feels good and right this
feels like the right version of the
future for me and I kind of like I know
I'm going to like hit this and then
things start to go well and cohere like
you're you're mentioning and then there
are other times where I'm like I just
want to like commit to a thing but there
the motivations are sort of negative or
like my the in there's too much inter
internal decoherence in terms of my like
ability to like really be self aligned
towards that goal where the law of
attraction or whatever the the thing
isn't working and so I maybe you reject
the premise and you think that you can't
think in a way that affects matter that
you know brings things into your life I
I think that but um MH but yeah what
what what is that like I think there's
some way in which your internal
orientation and the Purity with which
you want a thing really affects getting
the thing and then so there's some layer
beyond the just like Law of Attraction
create a vision board and like get get
the thing that actually involves like
your orientation towards what you want
and that being like
pure I'm I'm not sure I'm answering your
question so stop me if I'm if I'm
missing it but to me there's one
gigantic problem with the law of
attraction at least as I've heard it
espoused and admittedly my knowledge of
this is is not
comprehensive but the one real problem
with it is that it just does not
acknowledge the existence of
evil I don't care how many Jews in the
1920s and 1930s in
Germany you know
created a vision board or asked for what
they wanted etc etc I don't care what
they did yeah they were gonna get
slaughtered right if they stayed there
right you know kind of thing and I think
there's a certain danger thankfully
we're not in such you know exent
circumstances but um I think there's a
certain almost like hidden arrogance to
the idea that what you want yeah even
matters that much in the in the larger
scheme of the Universe I think it's
important to want things don't get me
wrong I think it's important to work
toward them but sometimes when I when I
hear that stuff there seems to be sort
of a sort of a comforting but to me
entirely false assumption that if I want
it enough it'll happen it'll come to I
will I will Attract it to me right when
I really think that misses a big part of
life which is there are certain things
are going to happen to me some of them
may be good fortune others may be bad
fortune I have nothing to do with
them yeah I agree I also think the way a
lot of people treat the Law of
Attraction and things of that variety
are uh of the occult variety where there
where it's kind of like a witchy Seance
you know I'm going to I'm going to like
say the thing over and over again until
it happens and that feels weird and like
it's almost like you don't have enough
faith in the delightful randomness of
life where like you know it's actually
might bring you something that's like
better than you can even conceive of and
like more interesting or that you might
initially think is awful but turns out
to be a great lesson totally you've told
me before that uh obsession is portable
and you've also told me that deprivation
creates motivation and so is there
something to kind of cutting off your
lower kind of lyic
desires that uh create space for
something higher 100% so if you're
getting into what's real what's the
truth what are you real I I just read
this quote by this guy he says you know
you know how you find out if something
is re really who you are as a person
what you really believe in he says are
you willing to do something that it cost
you money to do but do it anyway which
means you lose money every it's like I'm
losing money every second I'm talking to
you so I I thought that was because see
the the scientists think that they're
going to work out some kind of an
algorithm or something to do this and
that's exactly wrong other words this is
like stepping off the head of a the edge
of a cliff but the thing is if you um if
you're willing to at least entertain the
possibility that there's a higher level
here of wisdom
and of um how would you say
it and of um higher
standard uh for how you conduct yourself
if you're willing to entertain that as
at least a possibility then you you at
least you have a little bit of a step
towards Freedom um and and the bet the
driving excuse me the the driving
um Force for that is uh the this I call
the light in the darkness is going right
into the darkness where you can't
possibly know what the answer is and you
go there anyway and you go there on uh
on specs so to speak do you think human
beings have kind of a death
Drive
well to me the Death Drive is the same
thing as
um as the death Instinct you know so in
in it was he you know when Freud was 65
years old he said oh [__] this doesn't
work he was pretty verbal about it um
but he had to make it into a
theory he had to make it into a theory
and he called it the or an instinct he
called it the death Instinct so and what
he said was so interesting he says the
death instinct is the
Unstoppable
irrational unaru
arguable entropy in the human race so he
so basically he says you have an
instinct to destroy yourself you or not
even destroy you have an instinct to to
repeat over and over and over again
something that that erodes your identity
and blocks your ability to move forward
because you can't ever win he was also a
very
pessimistic uh guy he got famous by
being Did You Know by the way that in in
in Europe until I think
1940 or something he was a laughing
stock it was when he came over here I
think in I don't know when it was 19
that because the Americans are always
looking for the next new thing the
Europeans are looking for the last thing
what do you think there's uh there are
negatives about therapy like I think of
therapy in some ways as like there so
many negatives I think of it as like
like a very Boomer concept or something
and I you know I think like the divorce
rate has shot up and everybody just
wants like this perfect life and there's
something about the the Boomer Vibe
which is very like I can have whatever I
want like this sort of endless Frontier
feeling and so yeah is there something
and then is there some way in which like
it replaces like what should be a
traditional family role like maybe you
should just speak to your significant
other about these
things I mean it's hard to answer
because it so depends on the therapy the
context I agree any body that says it's
you know only bad is wrong and then
anybody that says it's only good is also
I mean the thing that I think 99% of the
time in practice it's it's pretty bad
right it's pretty like Freudian talk
therapy is pretty ineffective and stupid
or whatever but even I don't even then
like certain people you get Hope by just
m voicing your thing to some and you
have and you you feel repressed in your
local environment and right so that that
can be helpful but yeah I to me the most
common problem of of most talk therapy
is that it's just masturbatory right it
doesn't go anywhere there's no
articulated goal there's no road map to
get to the goal it's just sit talk pay
your money and then come back next week
yeah to me is a complete waste of time
totally yeah it's a it's a total waste
of time they're like how do you feel
about that and you're like you tell me
what you think about what I'm saying
right now cuz I spoke for 10 minutes and
you don't it's my goal I mean I'm not
saying that I necessarily reach it every
single time but my goal is for every
patient to leave every session feeling
like I have my marching orders I'm going
to do this this week whether it's
something in the outside world or
something with their Shadow or whatever
um and then I'm going to report back
next week it's to how I did you know how
how it went you know in monetization of
anything always involves sucking the
soul out of it because you want to sell
it and the more generic it is the easier
it is to sell that pissed me off and one
thing about me I think not saying I'm
better than any the shrinks or anything
like that but I do get pissed off at
this stuff and when they don't get
pissed off I get even more pissed off
well you just said something really
interesting which is that the um more
fungible something is or the more
interoperable it is the easier it is to
scale and monetize which seems to be the
whole ethos of our modern medical system
[__] a that healing is not this
idiosyncratic onetoone process maybe the
Healer sort of learns it in this sort of
hermetic interesting way they're called
to it instead if you think about the FDA
and and the protocol there the person
doing out the medication has to be
interoperable inherently because it's
all about scalability and how much you
can sort of replicate the experiment
across different practitioners and so
the practitioner is merely a cog and a
machine who has a menu of treatments to
Dole out to to patients [__] that's
evil man I'm GNA tell you see it gets me
so pissed off I don't know I mean you're
talking about medicine and Psychiatry
yeah yeah um but you you're probably
right it probably applies to both you
know in slightly different ways yeah and
that's where the tools came in so number
one I knew there was a gap and and we
had nothing we had no dog in the fight
no no tools no nothing to fill in that
Gap was it made me think that everybody
was either an idiot or corrupt I was
thinking about how in traditional
therapy you're paying this person and
you save all of your problems for them
and they just
listen and your friends who are
idiots give you advice yes unsolicited
yes and you want your friends just to
listen and you want your therapist to
give you advice so that's why I got the
idea of tools and what what
really oh how would you say it
[Music]
um what really inspired me was the idea
not that I was into making money I there
was nothing extraordinary about me
except for one thing I couldn't let
somebody leave my [__] office without
something if I had to make it up on the
spot whatever if I had to give him a
pair of my underpants from junior high
school but they have you have to give
them something whether it's conceptual
or physical they have to walk out with
something yeah and they and the shrinks
tried to say that's there's something
wrong with that yeah you're you're um
you're demanding immediate gratification
right you're IMM mature and you know my
very respectfully my my um response to
that is you are a [__] liar idiot
idiot so you you had if you if you see
cuz it it's it's funny you know when
some ways the um the psychoanalyst with
the beginning of marketing I think it I
think that's actually true by the way
this there was some history of that well
it was um Edward bernes who I think was
Freud's nephew sort of brought in
actually a lot of ideas that the Nazis
sort of based their propaganda off of to
America and created kind of modern
consumerism which I'm sure is an
oversimplified narrative but no I don't
think it's that over I think that's
right see the the the idea whether you
want to call psychoanalysis or R st it
doesn't matter what you call it it means
there's something going on in the human
psyche that isn't quite clear but it's
influential not clear but in influential
now a guy who's marketing oriented he's
going to have a wet dream right because
no one can contradict what he's saying
because no one can characterize it in
any kind of um
ordered consistent way so I I could tell
you hey I I know I told you I do this
for free but well you didn't
realize you had a dream last night and
when you told me the dream today I knew
that you wanted me to um charge you for
my services here it can't be disproven
right um so you think there's almost to
characterize what you're saying you're
saying there's almost a fault line in
modern therapy self-help maybe even the
medical profession where you have one
side that's sort of state power and
consumerist and then the other side
that's sort of empowering the patient
yes in a way that's almost probably
subversive incidentally to any power
structure yeah the the one thing I I
want to be careful about that is making
it like a one- siiz fits all type model
because look there's somebody most of
the these guys that I meet most of them
don't know [__] but they still some of
them still have Good Will and the reason
the only reason anybody gets helped by
that is by the Goodwill of the therapist
what do you think is the most
ubiquitously um applicable and Powerful
tool that you and Phil has have
developed you know I would answer that
differently over the many years that
I've worked with Phil but I would say
that for the past 5 years or so I would
say it's not one particular tool but it
would be working with your shadow that
has gone the farthest is I've gained the
most mileage out of it both working on
myself as well as working with my
patients there's something about just in
case people don't know the shadow is
sort of like The Unwanted inferior side
of your own personality whatever it is
you feel ashamed about or embarrassed of
that's your Shadow you explained to me
the idea of a shadow it's the version of
yourself that you want to hide from the
world the most and this is what I
pictured that day me
14 and um typically you hide it from the
outside world because you're a little
ashamed of it and embarrassed by it but
as you establish a relationship with it
and by a relationship I literally mean
as as you alluded to earlier talking to
it you know on a regular basis daily and
having it talk back to you and learning
that it actually knows things that you
don't know that that um to me I've
gotten the most mileage out of that
because you never know what what
someone's Shadow is going to is going to
say to them I can give somebody a tool
like the reversal of desire and I can
pretty much guarantee that if they use
it it they'll get themselves to do
things that they have a hard time doing
yeah but with the shadow work it's
anyone's guesss as to what the shadow is
going to tell them and where it's going
to lead them and so it's a more exciting
Journey for me to follow with a patient
because I'm sort of watching as they are
watching it unfold in unpredictable
directions yeah it is so unpredictable
it kind of reminds me of that Donnie
dark have you ever seen the movie Donnie
Darko no um well at one point he says
the main character he goes he's like I
I'm I'm I'm fulfilling the god
program and when he does that he's is
able to sort of travel back and forth in
time or whatever and I think there's
something to experiencing
synchronicities or like Kizmet or
whatever that comes from listening to
that like internal voice that often
tells you to do stuff that's seemingly
innan and actually crazy like if
sometimes you listen to your Shadow and
it's like you know run around the block
or like go go to this random part of LA
or whatever um and then you do it and
then you like meet a person that's like
somehow instrumental and a thing that
you're supposed to do or you get some
insight while you're there and I think
you know the the sort of like Butterfly
Effect like where if you like change one
little thing it has this like massive
multiplicative effect down the line if
you like listen to that voice it somehow
can get you back on track my question to
you would be how do you reconcile a tool
like that with like reversal of desire
which is really coming more from a place
of like I need to like achieve some sort
of external output and I need to kind of
fog myself into submission to to do that
that seems like it would cut against
listening to like some internal voice
that you've kind of repressed I just
think for most people both are necessary
they need some way of getting themselves
to do the things that they're not doing
and they need that because they need to
experience themselves as having some
sort of positive agency in the world
like I can get myself to get up and do
this difficult task return this email
make this phone call ET Etc um and I've
never met anyone that doesn't need some
of that you know kind of thing the the
other side can't you end up with the
shadow revolting a ton if you end up
being this crazy sort of Taskmaster
that's exactly why I think it's very
important to to do Shadow work and to
have a program with the shadow
simultaneously because the shadow can be
the one to say you know what don't do
the reversal of Desire today MH take a
walk around the block smell the breeze
the breeze smell the rose
yeah you know Etc ET smell the breeze
but it the the shadow will see things in
the world that you don't see one of my
favorite stories of this is this was
early on when I just learned about the
Shadow and I used to use him in sessions
with patients whenever I felt stumped
you know like I don't know what's going
on so I had this patient he was a kind
of
a very by the book he was an accountant
not a very emotional guy at all I was
having trouble getting him to even talk
like he just wasn't talking very much
was like a first session with the guy
yeah um and in sort of exasperation I
turned to my shadow and I said tell me
what to do like what what what am I
supposed to do here yeah and he said
look at his eyes I looked into his eyes
and I saw a tear was not a real tear but
it was like the vision of a tear coming
out of an eye
and so I took
a took a deep breath and I said you know
sitting with
you I'm getting the strangest feeling of
just immense
sadness and he burst into tears and
opened up completely and we had a great
session after that now I never would
have said anything like that if it
hadn't been for my shadow I never would
have even perceived him as sad you know
it was the shadow that saw something
that I couldn't see and that's why I
don't really see these as competing
things working on the reversal of desire
and doing the shadow work the shadow
work can enhance yeah I think a Sila and
caribdis of a of a young person in the
country who is trying to face adversity
is how to listen to your kind of inner
voice systematically and how do you
differentiate between you know like you
talk about the yungi and Shadow the part
of that you want to kind of you know
repress or compartmentalize and not show
to other people which could be a really
great source of wisdom how do you
differentiate between that and some
demonic inner voice you know like you
have the proverbial Angel and the devil
and people definitely get internal
messages all the time that are just
satiating their most low kind of hedonic
needs here's the thing it's weird I I
was thinking about all these things
yesterday here it is you H and no one's
going to like this you have to go on
Instinct and you have to create your own
value system it doesn't matter what
anybody else tells you your own and it
can't be based on proof if it's based on
proof it isn't worth [__] so the the
most important things have to be um I
call it Faith you know that pyramid did
I ever show you
that yes yeah birthday cake yes so the
first the bottom line the foundation of
a healthy view of of um both an
individual and uh political ideology
what is that you choose to believe it
you choose to believe it and that that's
what we call Faith and it faith is an
active choice and it's not based on
being right if you can do that then the
next Le level of this thing is uh
action not because you're guaranteeing
any result at all but because Faith
gives you the ability to take action
even if there's absolutely no no proof
at all and then go ahead well I think
what you're sort of suggesting is uh
trusting your own experience in a way
which is a kind of subversive idea
because you know we've had organized
religion for for thousands of years and
is there not something that's super
adaptive about that and is you know the
reason people seem to be going crazy and
maybe this ends in sort of a war of all
against all or something is because of a
breakdown of religion which is actually
very socially adaptive and it keeps
people kind of uh in order in many ways
yeah look I mean I understand everything
you're saying but it's not I don't think
that's tenable or viable over a long
periods of time one one reason is
people's awareness of themselves is
changing and it's not necessarily for
the
good um but the top of that uh birthday
cake is
confidence and it's so whether you're
right or wrong whether you're Republican
or Democrat however you look at it
you're going to you have to be honest
with yourself you're going to you're
going to end up making decisions and
valuing Things based on the gut there's
no way around that now but there there
are um aspects of of this that are
subject and there's a there's a healthy
part of your guts your instincts that's
the best way to say and it's but you
can't get it by thinking about it
figuring it out one time you do get it
is when you have to make a big decision
because then you have to make the
decision anyway and then you it's going
to affect you anyway then you get
serious with yourself about that now
just to go back to the other thing we
were saying I view the highest
um uh species of um the highest species
of Courage is the ability to walk right
into the
unknown without any guarantees of
anything and keep going do you don't
have to get a good result you just have
to keep going so it's like walking right
into the darkness and that if if you're
honest with yourself you can
um
uh you you can find out uh what you what
you really want who you really are I
guess I remember towards the end of my
time at Google I was like very depressed
and like I didn't know why I was there
it was like this
very this abstract job that I had no
sort of you know real feeling towards a
relationship with and you know I was I
felt very lost and um from that feeling
of you know being kind of lost at sea
and not knowing how I was going to like
fulfill my ultimate purpose I just
let go entirely and was like I'm going
to I'm going to have fun and I'm going
to like do what I feel like doing on a
day-to-day basis and I would listen to
what you would call like the shadow you
know the the inside of inside part of me
that i' had been kind of like caging up
and saying like you know repressing and
it would say you know go to this movie
or walk to this point in San Francisco
or go you know like random stuff and
that was like very generative for me in
a way that led me down like a whole
string of events that I never would have
predicted to where I am today where I'm
really grateful and then it's
interesting I feel it somewhat happening
again where I'm like I know there's
there's like a next um version of what
I'm supposed to be doing and I feel a
little trapped in some some of these old
patterns and
Loops um and like trying to get out of
that feels like a feels like a challenge
but yeah it's not really a question but
one thing I can say about that is I just
the it's one of the things that I have
so admired about you always I I never
had the courage to just consult my
shadow and do something you really have
that courage to just go with whatever it
tells you and let it lead you wherever
it wants to take you and I think that
that
courage doesn't guarantee that you get
what you want yeah but it really pays
off in terms of just the level of
satisfaction you have in life because a
life that's lived courageously is more
satisfying than one that isn't I think
so
too and it's interesting some some of
these like self-help authors that talk
about like doing the same thing every
day or
whatever I'm look at them and their life
and I'm like you ended up kind of in
like a mid tier of success right like
Stephen pressfield's like a great writer
and I actually love his book so I don't
want to pick on him but like you know I
don't know they're like you know he
wrote the that the war of art or
whatever so you just sit down and it's a
great book but like he's not the best
writer the best writers are like
listening to like these weird Spirits or
something and like re had really tapped
in in a way that like the the mid-tier
like more conventional people are are
not I remember I read this book I think
there's a a book called
um God what is it how artists live or
life of an artist or something it
outlines no no not the I like that book
but no there's a book about rituals of
of
artists I got to find it yeah and it's
like and and it talks about and it's
what I always found interesting is
there's like no pattern like there's one
mathematician who slept for like 16
hours a day and like I don't and like
shopau like lived with his mom till like
he was like really you know he like this
this was a bunch of stuff nii was like
an incel who like you know and and uh I
just I find that very interesting that
that that convention in some
ways has a limit on how effective it is
and then and then in fact you sort of
have to like submit to some like higher
Spirit life force thing that's just like
flowing through you and you have to like
tap into it and I feel like the the most
successful people I know have tapped
into that and have kind of opted out of
the convention then mhm but I don't
would you agree you work with some of
the the most successful people in the
world the most successful people I treat
have only one thing in common and that
is they do more before breakfast yeah
than the rest of us do in three months
but see they just take so many action
steps and by the way they don't all pay
off yeah which is they're taking so many
I so I generally agree I think that
correlates and they're not by the way
they're not the deepest people totally
those are the most success no I I agree
the people I know who are most
successful I mean like it's like the
Trump style cockroach junk energy or
whatever but but I agree with that but
uh you have counter examples to that
like Jeff Bezos uh gets his day started
at like 10: a.m. or something right he
like talks about he's like I I putter
around and drink my coffee till like 10
maybe that true maybe that was like a
way to throw competitors off and maybe
it probably wasn't true right after you
left deaw to starton wondering is what
his habits I'm sure there's some you
know glossing over of you know just like
Warren Buffett's the super apple pie
grandpa or whatever he's probably not
he's probably pretty sh and I should
probably also add a footnote here which
is that I'm not sure that it matters
that much I'm not sure that we should be
studying the richest or the most
successful people and using them as
templates for for they all feel lost to
me too it's wild it's not these are not
people whose mental health I would
necessarily you know Envy or want to
emulate I agree with with that I also
think the scapegoating of the ultra rich
is stupid and beside the point and like
and like a lot of these people are super
impressive and I'm glad they exist and
they've created a lot of value but I but
I think they uh yeah I think they are
not the Paradigm of happiness or mental
health or or or and then are often they
don't know what to do with the money
exactly which is because they it's this
treadmill where you're like it's the
hedonic you know I made a billion and
then you know then I have to make 10 now
if money was the point then eventually
you sort of like well so what am I just
going to accumulate more for the rest of
my life totally yeah and you can't
there's not a whole lot of meaning in
that no definitely not there is a lot
of influence you can you can have and a
lot of things you can do yes but then
there are all these like social
limitations to that like if you really
want to do something meaningful like you
know there like regulation and there
like social coordination issues and
those are probably harder to
solve uh than the M like you know you
can't just throw money at those things
right it's like the I don't know whether
Elon Musk is going to succeed with
Twitter but I think he's learning now
that it's it's not just like you know
you can't just um feature your way out
it's not a technocratic solution maybe
you have to do something interesting
culturally there or something I don't
know I mean he's definitely also has
this relentless L cockroach energy or
whatever but uh no I I admire I think
he's awesome but
but I just think that's a great
description he doesn't die I mean like
think about his career is his SpaceX I
think the first launch attempt was 200
2006 and um they
failed three times either two times or
three times so either on the third or
fourth attempt they they succeeded and
they were if that if that that had blown
up the whole thing would have failed and
now it's like over 100 billion dollar
company but it would have it would have
been over for him and he sank all of his
own money into that company and then
Tesla when they went public everybody
shorted it and everybody hated on him
he's fought a lot of yeah yeah he's
fought against a lot of headwinds super
impressive I I get the vibe that his I
remember I read his um biography by this
guy Ashley Vance and like he was his dad
was abusive and he just took so much
like um beating as a
that you get the vibe that like his pain
tolerance was just like way higher than
anybody else's even by the time he
started his first company which is
called zip 2 which is like a a white
pages online which you know yeah that's
interesting he does have the quality of
a person who learned early on to just be
impervious yeah impervious to anything
that was coming at him yeah and it's
interesting too CU he's I think he's a
combo of like hyper sensitive and
impervious right which is which is
really wild
like he's tapped into some sort of
mystical thing and then he's also like
super tough and like just will not stop
and like you know can get beaten over
the head by but I think like um I was
actually talking to a SpaceX employee
like a week ago and he was like I joined
SpaceX because I saw Elon Musk get very
emotional when Neil Armstrong criticized
SpaceX because that was his hero he was
like he wanted to like recreate the
Space Program privately and like reboot
it
and SpaceX done an amazing J it's a
really impressive company and like you
know in a kind of handwavy way Neil
Armstrong just dismissed it and so my my
friend was like that humanized him for
me they inspired you to do this didn't
they
yes and to see them casting stones in
your
direction difficult well you were just
talking about how you think Humanity we
were discussing Graham Hancock the last
guest I had on the show and you said
that you agreed that Humanity goes back
way longer than we think it it might
have so why do you think that I'm just a
blind follower of rud Steiner that's all
that's what he says so but you know if
you look at the the history of this I
was I don't know what the I'm not an
anthropologist or anything but it seems
like maybe every 30 years they say the
Earth is older than what they thought
they they never and I've never heard any
body really say hey isn't this weird we
underestimate it every [__] time I
don't understand how that works but yeah
so why are you a blind follower of
Rudolph Steiner I was just kidding but I
I I I found him to be very his
predictions I found to be very accurate
and also besides being accurate they
make sense you know he he looks at the
he looks at life and history as a uh
almost not rational that's not the right
word but as a
connected um set of events all of which
um all of which connect to his his view
of the world in an abstract sense like
you want me to go into this yeah let's
do it so like why don't we set up for
the audience who he is so he was uh turn
of the century uh Austrian philosopher
who kind of came out of the theosophical
world but
uh created an offshoot called
anthroposophy and the whole idea is sort
of spiritual science and so empirical
inquiry into sort of spiritual or
formally thought of as purely
psychological phenomena and he was also
the father of organic farming so he was
clearly sort of rigorous in a you know
kind of skeptical scientific sense as
well yeah what he said I think was right
he he was the first one to really
actively apply the the vision of Science
and the idea of cause and effect and the
idea of experimentalism he actually did
that the the thing is most of the um
let's say information is not provable
because the experience it's not like
well this thing fell 3 feet and we can
use the law of gravity it didn't it
didn't work like that CU everything was
internal so you had to believe you had
to accept what he was telling you
because there was no physical evidence
but that's the whole point the whole
idea of what he was doing doing is you
can have evidence and the evidence can
be tested but it it's it's all internal
but he would say you you can um
internally test out some of the stuff
and it may not work out why why do you
think Steiner or how does Steiner break
down uh human nature in a kind of a more
uh precise or interesting way than other
people I think what really um separates
ER from the rest of the pack is that
he takes a psychological view of the
human being but he embeds it in a larger
epistemology that includes spiritual
forces that are surrounding the human
being and he's the only the only
philosopher slash you know psychologist
that I've ever studied that really
studies the interplay between the
Spirits surrounding us and the and what
goes on you know internally he was very
fascinated with bees he he considered a
beehive as one organism not it's not a
conglomeration of you know thousand bees
the bees are all at at one together they
look like a single
superorganism it really does make them
appear as one and uh it has something to
do with the queen be and he compared it
to to the Wasps with the WASP every
little waspish thing was separate and
had a life of its own so the be the bees
became a model for exactly what we don't
have now which is a holistic connected
almost organ organ
organistic um model for really for
everything I think like a 110 years ago
or something he was born in 1860 the guy
says there's going to be two things 100
in in a 100 years so B about now there
going to be two things that will be very
difficult bordering on the impossible
one education he said it'll be almost
impossible to really educate kids and
two it' be very hard to have strong
leaders you have pseudo strong leaders
but that's not the same thing but it's
very hard for him in his eyes it would
be very hard to have really strong Le
and the the reason for both of those
things is narcissism is going to get so
out of control and everybody's me me me
me me and no one will listen to anybody
else yeah and 100% that's right I read
this article once where where this is
only a moment in time but um the the um
what was I think it was pen was doing an
analysis on on what gradu what type of
graduate school what subject that is
when they graduated from undergrad and
60% % of them said they wanted to be
investment bankers yeah think about that
yeah well there's something about the
Baby Boomers where they they realized
that there was there were a lot of
scraps to go around and they could sort
of pick at the scraps and that became
the model of success for younger
generations and it it's just horrible
like the whole reason we're here is
because of uh uh an industrial base and
a sense of sort of industriousness and
and and hard work and and value creation
for other people and then you when value
extraction becomes the model I think you
know it's a pretty dark place to be in
that that creates a sense of unfairness
in the thing and that this is the
mediocre Road anyway see this kind of
stuff hurts people that are that whose
goals are prosaic and basically what
they want is security
now now the other guy so and that I call
that the power system it's like a beat
it's like a you know like on the grass
somebody walks along a certain track and
that everybody
follows so that's
like
uh go to go to Brown go to Harvard Law
School join this Law Firm I mean it's an
extreme example but it it creates an
elite um that thinks it knows something
and that that group of PE you could see
when everybody was paying to get their
kids into private school yeah they
didn't think there was anything wrong
with that it didn't even occur to them
no it feels like the modern quote
unquote Elites are just praying on a
kind of an over
financialization and a loss in any
intrinsic value in sort of Labor and
basic hard work correct and uh it's it's
really horrible and uh you know if
you're a true capitalist which you know
I don't think capitalism is a perfect
system but I'd love to I like it better
than Marxism then I think this needs to
we need to P re this in and if we don't
I think we're we're in big big trouble
actually Carl marks wrote before he
wrote The Communist Manifesto which I
think was 1848 he wrote a book um called
his economic and and philosophic
manuscripts and he talks about uh all
this stuff he talks talks about
alienation um but also the idea that uh
animal life activity is basically all
around subsistence it's around food
survival and shelter and there's
something about the modern capitalist
system which the same literally the
exact same and everything that's sort of
unique about the human being which is
that we're self-referential we can write
poetry and create beautiful kind of
aesthetic Beauty uh is kind of shot
immediately by this and so you you
combine that with uh the idea that you
can actually move up and that the game
is rigged and you end up in a really bad
Revolution and and you know on top of
that people don't seem to understand
economics at all and that seems to be
like the most important issue you have
all these other hot button issues that
are basically distractions we're
rearranging the deck chairs on the
Titanic or something so but let me tell
you about Carl marks well let me tell
you about Riner Riner said I think it
was 1840 I don't
know
um KL Marx was in the British museum I
don't know why he goes every day to
write and rud ster says the devil would
was dictating to him what to put in
these books especially you know D copy
to whatever it was yeah um so listen
very carefully to this he he understood
the creation of of value through work
however he couldn't he he thought this
is something I another thing I have so
much
uh whatever the [__] I have about it I
don't believe in self-regulation at all
self-regulation says the the the the
failing will be automatically and almost
mindlessly
corrected um because it's a
self-regulating system the only problem
with that is there aren't any
self-regulating system systems so he
Carl Marx thought once he had explained
to the workers so to speak what was
actually going on they would they would
automatically correct it that's
self-regulation but there's no such
thing as that so once the concept came
out of of the uh we're going to describe
it as as the value of Labor what really
happened was the bad guys said oh [__]
here here's some real value we're going
to slurp it up yeah well it's always the
most altruistic seeming philosophies are
the most evil because it seems like you
can Implement them at Mass scale so
there's something about
utilitarianism and then Marxism as well
where Marx markx was so diagnostically
hard-headed in terms of the current
situation and then in his
prognostication of what would happen
which is that yeah the workers would
Rebel and take over the state and the
means of production and then everything
would somehow dissolve that's literally
as Fantastical as it gets and and
completely Cuts against you know any
basic understanding of human nature yeah
so to go back to something you said a
long time ago the
the um the the acid test the standard
for any idea any
ideology has to be it has to have a plan
where it recognizes human evil and has
some set of metri not metrics some set
of mechanisms to deal with that if you
think it's just going to happen by
yourself you're nuts what there's
something about the human being that's
both ultimately very depraved and
animall likee and then also kind of
divine and
inspired what's your sort of model of of
of
humans I I my model I would I would
agree with that there's a lower and a
higher part but the key thing is is not
the okay so
so this is
naiv this is murderous
selfishness but the the key is up
here which is basically Free Will PR
practiced all the time so I don't agree
that that's all a human being is that
that's
um that that's what R Rus says evil is
bipolar you was this what he calls
aromatic evil and then um luciferic eil
luciferic evil is very like uh
performance
oriented
manic
self-referential a good time until he
crashes that's that's the
um and anyway that's the one poll the
other poll was is called which is called
aromatic that's luciferic aromatic it's
like the polit bureau it's like a it's
like a one of those offices with all
accountants in there yeah and there's a
dullness to the think bureaucratic
tyranny or something so those are the
two
polarities what what he calls Christ as
the third figure but you you can have an
operational uh version of
Christ he was Jewish so you could maybe
pick a Jewish name for yourself um but
the point of it is this's the the Third
factor it's why you know in the actually
in the old and new but mostly in the New
Testament there were there would be
Illusions to the number three what I
didn't say anything oh okay the
Illusions to the number well he died at
the age of 33 right rudol siner no
Christ oh yes he did
yeah um I always find it interesting
these things whether you believe they
happened or they didn't happen just this
the symbology of it is is fascinating do
you think Christ
has sort of a symbolic or metaphorical
bloodline and that um in kind of a
neoplatonic sense other people can reach
that State of Consciousness and that
he's more kind of symbolic and maybe
even Pagan Traditions prior to Christ
had you know versions of Christ that
Christianity sort of shored up in some
way here's what he says it's very
interesting he said we like to think of
Christ as a great teacher he said he
wasn't a teacher at all that's a
misunderstanding because if I'm teaching
you something I'm in a distance do this
do that buy these cookies he says Christ
was how does he put it Christ was a man
of action basically is what he says and
the the the idea of crucifixion was an
action and again talking about this
thing about freely will he didn't have
to in a Karma sense he didn't have to go
through the through the
crucifixion um but it it had to do with
the karma of it's not like Christ
forgives all your sins that's [__]
but what he does what he does what's the
word uh forgive yeah but he but he he
does forgive the karma of the whole
human race which is a very different
thing one is an individual one is is
everything and um
um by doing that he he became he was he
was in the middle between the two the
two polarities this you know if you go
to
U uh basil you know where basil is it's
like in the it's like in Western uh is
it yes it's it's in Western Switzerland
Switzerland yeah uh so there's like a
rud Steiner like a museum or something
and and there a sculpt SC a wooden
sculpture that he did himself sculpture
that he did himself and in it he has AR
aramon which is the one pole and Lucifer
which is the other pole and he Christ is
just there in the middle and he's
killing both of them he's not he's not
doing anything it's just they they need
he basically he was keeping them from
interacting with each other and this is
a good thing for you to learn about hey
you know my lawyer's coming over here
maybe you can interview him too he's
deep into all this stuff is he deep what
do you think are my biggest strengths
and
weaknesses and um how should I best
spend my time in 2023 well your greatest
strengths are you're unbelievably
intelligent um I mean just beyond beyond
um no really I don't think I don't know
if that's true it's true but anyway your
your mind is is like is unlike any I've
ever seen before it's in incredibly
powerful um you got to expand your
circle I don't know I know a lot of
really smart people um no there's very
few people who have the
um breadth of knowledge that you have
and the incisive ability to think
rationally as as you do
and that's to me that's like the m
masculine you know where your weak is on
the feminine has to do
with emotion
tenderness um a sense of the Aesthetics
I think you have it I have a sense of
the Aesthetics you have't yeah it's the
emotion and tenderness you're right yeah
it doesn't it's like you haven't allowed
that part of you to flourish and it
probably feels a little threatening
because it's not
as you know int with you can Master
things yes this other feminine side
isn't about Mastery no I have trouble
being taken care of or like receiving
love or gifts or stuff like that so yeah
it's interesting like I
I yeah I think you're right and then
what what do you think is the yeah how
should I um best spend my time in
2023 how should you best spend your time
how do how do you meet mean I mean do
you want to narrow that down a little
um what should I work on and and uh what
what should it be about and maybe the
working on you know some quality
involves like travel or staying here or
you know I don't know I think I've told
you this before but um I've never said
it on camera so you can say it on camera
right
um I think your best use of time MH is
to meure up an image of the most
vulnerable side of you yeah that is the
part that's capable of awe reverence
yeah um it is the counter masculine you
know side of you and make it a goal to
develop a as strong a relationship as
you possibly can with that side of your
personality developing a relationship
includes talking to it every day it
includes letting it letting it make
decisions for you not all the time but
at least from time to time you know kind
of thing um and it means seizing a hold
of the moments where you feel vulnerable
and instead of like pushing them away
yeah go for it go into it totally I you
know it's something I'm find interesting
too is I think your your
body knows often better than your mind
does like what's good for you and bad
for you like I think for a long time I
was not in touch with like how I felt
about certain situations and I would
like override the way I I felt on a
visceral level to like make a business
deal happen or because I was supposed to
show up at a thing or whatever but
there's something too like like it's
like re you know reflexology this like
muscle testing like it's like you put
like a vitamin you know you take a
vitamin then you test what how strong
you are whatever like I think that's
there's actually something to that and I
think we understand the causal mechanism
I think there's something like that
around life too where like you feel
strong you're like this feels really
good for me and then other things you're
like this really feels weak and I feel
like I'm being attacked and I don't know
why and I feel like I'm tensing up it's
like oh cuz that person's kind of
repressed and acting weird but like you
the thing Artic your body articulates it
before you even do kind of
intellectually you know that yeah
absolutely it's like when I walk into a
situation and suddenly feel myself
sensing it's like my body is sensing
something in the room that I'm not even
aware of yeah you know the energy is
kind of off or something but yeah it's
interesting I guess what sorry I just
flashed on probably my worst memory of
that was going on Dr Oz on Dr Oz yeah it
was just like you were like freaked out
I don't belong here well it's kind of
awkward it's like get me on on those
show I think those shows like Joe Rogan
talks about this he's like those shows
where it's like you have this like five
minute like prepackaged like we're going
to walk over here now and you're going
to say like one sentence or like you
know the late night talk show things
where it's like the producers talk to
you ahead of time and like give you like
four stories that they're going to touch
on they're so [__] lame and like not
real or extemporaneous and now that you
have like podcasting which is more real
like people don't really want that [__]
anymore why would they it's so canned
it's so canned yeah it's just dumb yeah
it's very uncomfortable as an
interviewee also because CU there's
nothing natural about it no you can't
just be cool in yourself and yeah and I
think it's gotten worse too like I you
know you watch like um Johnny Carson or
or who dick Cavit or whatever Cav was
great they just seemed a little more
natural and then the guys now are like
I'm sure they're walking on eggshells
you know times 10 because of the PC
culture we live in or whatever so maybe
it's that but it feels like it's gotten
worse as podcasting and other sort of
longer form better formats right have
you know grown but I don't know so
uncomfortable I agree I agree but I I
think it's interesting I mean I think
media in many ways is transforming
itself and the old thing dying like you
you watch these news anchors and it's
like what are you talking about you
don't believe anything you're [__]
saying you got the voice though that's
yeah well it's like it's like they they
they're no one you don't talk like that
that's not normal right
and a person talk to me like that in a
normal situ be like [__] off you know
get get out of here with that BS yeah
and it's just artificially combative and
then and it's it's just annoying right
but I think we live in a wild time where
um the one great thing about the
internet is that it has opened all of
that up it's sort of like anybody can
anybody can interview anybody you know
anywhere totally and it can be the most
natural thing in the world and you can
make money off of it and you know
outside of a lot of these platforms
censoring you based on Purely arbitrary
reasons cuz some bureaucrat like flaged
your thing for God Knows Why outside of
that it's amazing it's so empowering
that you can just do that you just start
your own thing you don't have to have
crazy overhead it's really more about
the substance you don't have to like
spend a ton of money it's really come a
long way I remember when I was in high
school I sort of led a drive to
eliminate corporal punishment yeah um
you know in in junior high and High
School in those days if you did
something wrong they could take you into
the boy vice principal or whatever and
have you drop your pants and they would
SWAT you with a literally with a paddle
and I tried to do it and I think back
and I think God if I could have had a
YouTube channel I I could have reached
so many I the hardest thing was just to
get the message out yeah yeah it was
crazy no now you can really get anything
out it's funny I I uh last year was like
considering maybe working on like a more
official like UFO disclosure project
like documentary and then I came to the
conclusion like you know I liked some of
the people attached to it and I wasn't
as much of a fan of some of the other
people and I was like I could just do
what I want on my own terms and I don't
know maybe as much as they do but like I
can figure certain stuff out I can get I
have good access and I can get
interviews with some of these amazing
people so like why don't I just [__]
do it and like I don't need to like you
know spend ton you don't need to spend
all this overhead and then you have all
these people taking massive fees right
it's stupid just create just make the
thing like and I think like the lower
latency you know the just creating
something quickly like there's value in
that obviously there are great URS who
put YouTube to shame you know in their
works but um I think even they often
started you know look at Stanley kubri
That Guy taught himself how to or I was
just watching a documentary on Richard
link later and he's like I went to the
Stanley kubri fil uh film school that
taught myself I just picked up a camera
I think there's a lot of value in in
that and then and having creative
control at the start at the jump and
then that um you know sort of uh turns
into your skills grow
and then you got find ansers come to you
but it's on your terms you know that's
amazing it's great I don't know well I'm
proud of you courage to do it thank you
yeah well it took courage to for me to
not like I always can start new things
that's easy for me what's really hard
for me is like putting myself out there
like that that was really felt really
cringeworthy to be honest I hate social
media I didn't have social media until a
year ago or whatever and um listen I'll
tell you something you cannot cannot
under any circumstances fulfill your
potential without doing cringeworthy
things I fully agree you just have to
you got to just go for it yeah yeah and
in the beginning it was like so
embarrassing I was like what am I doing
and it even I look back on it and like
some of the stuff was actually
embarrassing like it wasn't really like
the perfect reflection of me but I think
you have to go through that phase I
think Ira Glass is like a really good
quote about this but it's like
you when you see like an early artist
you can you pick up that that like
there's like a a a germ or like a kernel
of like real truth and you have to like
carve that out of the marble that is and
that that takes just doing the thing
over and over again um but in the
beginning you kind of you get a little
little glimmers of like okay there's
some magic here but like the person's
just really not that good and then yeah
I don't know I
you do it yeah that goes back to the
Shadow by the way which is what what is
ultimately cringeworthy about certain
things is that you're revealing parts of
yourself that you've never really
revealed before yeah and that's one of
the reasons why it's so fulfilling in
the long run actually even regardless of
whether you succeed or fail because by
revealing these parts of yourself you
accept them yes and then the the part
that I struggle with is like there are
ways in which I can make this show or
whatever way more vulnerable actually
and more less about like headyy ideas
and more about like myself and whatever
but then I I sort of hate the garden
variety you know Millennial narcissists
just like it's so hard and this has
happened and that and it's like shut up
your life is good you know my life's
very good like I'm very grateful for a
lot of it even though I I go through a
lot back to a part of the discussion we
had earlier which is for you reaching
that level of vulnerability regardless
of whatever judgments you have yeah
that's an unequivocal good so you think
I should make it more vulnerable yeah
you're probably
right but then I'm like you know I don't
I just don't want to be like cuz like
there's days where like I you know I
have hard days but I do I go he like I'm
guys I'm struggling you know it's like
sh shut up I don't know there I don't
want I don't want to say that well I'll
tell you what just as an interim step
yeah record it yeah and don't put it out
okay but just record it and see yeah
what does the vulnerable part of you
feel like yeah when it's given a venue
when it's given a microphone it's given
a chance to speak does it really
actually feel cringeworthy or does it
actually feel like that was a relief to
get that off my chest totally well you
brought up the artist way uh who wrote
that book Julia Cameron yeah and I used
to do like the morning Pages you know
like the vomit drafts of like just
what's on your mind and that there's a
way in which do doing that gets you into
a flow because you're just like yeah
you're accessing like the truest part of
yourself yeah and then you're getting
your ego out 100% And I noticed with the
show and stuff it's not the breaking
down of abstract Concepts that like
other people already know it's like the
expressing my take on it is the thing
that people like 100% and um and that's
what people want people don't watch like
uh Joe Rogan or any people don't watch
any show for the content they watch to
see the uh person's reaction to or how
they open up or deal with the thing and
it's really it's almost a cult of
personality it's like they want because
the stuff all these podcasts have the
same people on so why do you listen to
like a a person one person exploring
that and not the other there's something
about them right and their their
openness to it and their you know
interviewing style or whatever you're
watching somebody sort of Skate On The
Edge you know your case it's skating on
the edge of vulnerability yeah and the
better you get at skating on that edge
and sometimes going over the edge you
know the the the more fulfilling it'll
be for you that's the main thing but
also I think the more popular it'll be
totally well be being vulnerable I guess
where I where I feel kind of hopeless is
like I don't want to be like a personal
content creator for the rest of my life
like I I do want to make an impact and
like having like a million subscribers
on YouTube which I think is very
possible for our Channel isn't that
exciting to me I I really want to like
change uh Society for the better and
like uh uh expose them to really cool
ideas and bring in wacky interesting
thinkers and inventors and people who
can like push things forward and you
know maybe invest in them and maybe you
know create a center around this or
something and so I guess being
vulnerable is like I I I sometimes look
at where I am now and like that and I'm
like I don't know how I get there or
what that looks like and I I honestly
feel a little burned out from all the
work I've done on other things in the
past where I'm like I just don't feel
like I'm in the right head space to do
it now think about La which is the
probably the place I'd want to set this
up and I'm like it just feels like the
some of the worst people and culture and
the worst people get attention here and
so I'm like how I'm going to how am I
going to pull that off you know what I
tell my patients
is um
Take Your Shadow which in your case is
the most vulnerable yeah part of you and
give it a venue every day regularly
consistently by the end of it you should
feel as if you've exposed yourself in a
way that does not feel
good and just do that every day for six
months or so see what happens I with you
I guarantee you number one it's going to
feel good number two I mean it'll feel
scary as all hell in but it'll feel good
eventually and number two people will
really it'll really appeal to people
awesome people will love that well thank
you I I feel more and more drawn to like
um doing kind of like a Hunter S
Thompson style um traveling across the
US and like seeing strange out there
things and documenting them fascinating
yeah I think it'd be good for both me
and then also good to expose for other
people or whatever and would be
fascinating I want to do more of that
I'm I'm going to do a mini version of it
I think coming up going to a couple
places but then I think I might want to
take a road trip and uh yeah just see
like people would love that it be like a
travel log but a deeper a little deeper
yeah like you know like we're traveling
across the country but we're also
traveling the landscape of your soul oh
that that's a good
[Laughter]
pitch cool
is there anything else you want to talk
about no this has been great yeah good
at this I don't know if I'm good thank
you I think I think it'll be good I
think we can cut together some really
cool stuff yeah good I can I never tell
how I'm coming across no you were
awesome yeah it was really cool and it
was natural and you know which I like I
don't like the yeah yeah yeah like that
Charlie Rose interview you guys did
God oh my God he was such an [__] he
was an [__] yeah not only that you
know why was he an [__] oh he got
kind of uncomfortable when you guys gave
him therapy or something yeah he would
not go there at all that's okay I I
don't usually expect people to go there
but
um no the thing that really bugged me
about it was that what what he was most
interested in yeah was that you had been
an intern there and he was in the middle
of being sued by a bunch of interns for
some sort of sexual harassment thing
well he ended up getting me too and he
wanted your name and number to so that
he could contact you really and you
would absolve him you know you would say
I didn't see anything like that when I
was I didn't know that he wanted my
contact so he could yeah I didn't know
that I didn't cuz I I came with you guys
to The Green Room and stuff and yeah
yeah it just was
sleazy there was something sleazy yeah
he was a sleazy guy I mean he was he was
one of the best interviewers in my
opinion just on an objective basis of
all time without question and I I feel
grateful cuz I you know maybe I I do
think I want to do a lot more
interviewing for the rest of my life
experience really cool experience really
awesome it was amazing I mean I cuz I
would my job was to like um you know
tend to people's needs in the green room
right and that green room was like it
was like I would be stuck in a room with
Henry Kissinger for an hour literally
that's a real example like he was like
Henry Kissinger uh Charley Rose was late
for Henry and uh I remember he was like
on the phone with his like assistant and
he was like sloppiness like we know he's
always late like why am I and then and
then he started Kissinger started asking
me about Arab migration patter he was
like you studied history I go yeah and
then he starts asking me about Arab
migration patterns in like the 12th
century as if like some history you know
history major encapsulates like it's
like you have to know that and it was
like something about like the formation
of the Ottoman Empire or something and I
was like it was interesting it was wild
and I asked him a bunch of questions too
about you know mid-century foreign
policy stuff it was wild but like that's
priceless I [__] I could never
despite him Pro probably being a kind of
evil um figure yeah a dark figure that's
great he kind of had like like a he was
a dark figure he was when I was at
Harvard he and this other Professor
Stanley Hoffman Stanley Hoffman yeah
yeah were the sort of like the two
luminaries of the history department and
and Kissinger was the dark dark force
and Hoffman was like this force of light
and not not necessarily like innocent
optimism or anything but just he was so
friendly and so nice and such a great
guy to learn from you just you it was
one of the few classes where I wanted to
go to class cuz I loved hearing him
speak you know kind of thing and
Kissinger was the darkest figure he was
a he was a power hungry dude yeah and he
I don't love what he's done with clearly
with China cuz he obviously takes credit
for the Ceno Soviet split in 1973 and
the you know pingpong diplomacy or
whatever and I think he's been a big
advocate for investment in China heot
that book on China and I think I think
he's funded a little by China and and
China the CCP is not a a good regime uh
especially right now no it's terrible
it's terrible and I think that he's uh
kind of is he an apologist for the I
think so yeah and I think he's uh yeah
he's become a little bit of a mouthpiece
for them and that that's kind of sad to
me and you could you could honestly say
that in many ways that was a huge
foreign policy blun under like like I'm
I'm a opening the door to China yeah
because here's a telling story actually
his foreign minister Xiao enl M uh was
speaking with one of Kissinger's
emissaries who had gone to China before
Kissinger actually showed up and uh
they're talking and he goes uh America
is the ba uh to Xiao says this to um the
the American Diplomat and the American
Diplomat the the translator says oh
America is the is the you know
preeminent power that's what Bob is
supposed to mean and fact ba is a
reference to the Waring States period
which was you know I think it was like
4th Century BC to 2 Century ad and you
had like a bunch of these sort of fous
regimes in China kind of rising and
falling constantly and that was when you
had Sun sue you know writing all the
philosophy of war and stuff and uh ba
actually was the current hegemon that
was bound to fall because it sort of
overstayed it it's its welcome and was
like too predatory right and and there's
like T there tons there's a guy named
Michael Pillsbury who WR who wrote a
whole book called the the hundred-year
um uh marathon and it's all about this
sort of double speak that runs
throughout uh us China relations where
China's kind of you know it's all the
sunu using our Force against us
enriching itself um by using the us
whether it be Goldman Sachs iping their
companies or you know attracting foreign
investment or you know whatever and then
um sort of in a tongue-and-cheek way
actually insulting the us or like or
like showing that it actually longterm
would love the US to fall right of
course and I and I think that's been the
story of a lot of you know and it's
something that Trump as bad as he was
was instinctively right on right and and
and it ended up in the Super incoherent
always more suspicious in a way that
where he was right and maybe it took
actually that kind of Queen's you know
street style uh business quality to like
to actually pick up on what was going on
interesting and like the neoliberals
really got it wrong in many ways do you
think is there something about the way
the Western World lives that is do you
think the Western World in some ways is
committed suicide or or kind of burning
up you know you had all these gestal big
history thinkers who were kind of into
esot terrorism like you know Oswald
Spangler or Renee Ganan or julus saola
people like that who all said you know
the West is inevitably going to decline
you know in in in the coming few hundred
years you know I don't know I think
about like people in La for example and
they you know they all seem to have an
xiety and they talk about their
microbiome or whatever you go to like an
UNC conted tribe in Papa New Guinea and
they probably have great microbiomes but
they never talk about it and they none
of them probably suffer from existential
angst and
so what do you think's going on and how
does this can this transmute into
something positive in the
future it definitely
can um but everybody's got to face death
and feel it in their guts first be
before they can otherwise it's not
credible what they have to do but um
this is exactly you get into the tools
in other words the purpose of the tools
is not to tell you the universe is this
way or that way the purpose of the tools
is to is to take
adversity take obstacles even just your
thought processes are [__] up whatever
it is and um try to transcend them and
get get something out of them if
someone's feeling um really hopeless and
like they just don't know what to do
like they like they see no
future what would be the first thing and
obviously it can't be one- siiz fits all
but if you were to give out some generic
advice for a category of people like
that you know it really depends on their
circumstances if they're feeling
hopeless about something
specific um maybe a project that they
got heavily invested in that doesn't
seem to be going well or whatever then
what I would want to do is give them
tools to enable them to let go of the
result of the project by the way it
might turn out to be positive I'm not
saying it's necessarily going to be
negative but they're putting too much of
their hopes in getting the result that
they want and therefore they're feeling
hopeless because they don't have any
control over the result so there there
has to be some procedure for letting go
of results
and valuing your effort irrespective of
results and the tool there is called
loss processing you can use it even
before you get a result to let go of
your investment in the result or you can
use it after the result doesn't turn out
you know the way you wanted it to to let
go and keep moving forward mostly human
beings get too invested in getting
results they want to get results and
that hurts us because we don't try as
hard as we can and we hedge our bets cuz
we're too afraid of not getting the
result that we want and then when we do
get the result it it's never as
satisfying as you thought it was going
to be anyway yeah totally how does
somebody
truly know themselves on a deeper level
so it feels like a lot of modern self-
helper therapy is around it's around
porting addictions from Bad Things To
good things and you feel this sort of
crazy void or trauma around being alive
or something that's happened to you in
your childhood and all you have to do is
move it from like drugs and alcohol and
you know other ways of pacifying
yourself
towards Fitness and your you know your
job and all these other things but that
still feels like it feels like you're
doing the thing out of a out of a deep
sense of Despair and darkness and and
it's sort of you're just moving
addictions over so is there is there a a
layer you can get to that's lower than
that that's you know even even better
and more more healthy yes but it's not
see this is where it's hard for people
to grasp there's a difference between a
feta
compete
um almost object it's it's a solution
that will stand for all times versus the
the solution is process are you going to
look at something as in process which
means the it's incumbent on you to move
forward without stop or you going to
look at it as a final solution there's
only one final solution and that's
Hitler Jesus
Christ so evil evil presents itself like
that sure as like an ultimate solution
to well yeah
any uh you could say that the 20th
century was the age of ideologies big
ideologies you could say sort of big
reputation referendum on all the
ideologies because empirically they all
seem to not actually scale and work out
which means our whole public
conversation is sort of feudal in a
sense because it's all about these sort
of you go to these like dinner part boua
dinner parties and they're all everybody
always say you it's the funniest
question they so what's the solution you
know as if you're going to draw it out
on a cocktail napkin and you know come
up with some technocratic solution to
our social maladies and it's uh it I we
need to focus on ourselves and and and
on a a local level but even that feels
somewhat tra as well like you know the
whole Jordan Peterson just just make
your bed or whatever like that that
feels sort of lame too so well in those
terms it is lame but if you think of it
as a metaphor for Endless effort then it
starts to make more sense so most of
these guys most people can't extrapolate
and jump around and see how all these
things fit together there's a certain
sort of humble position that I think
really helps which is I visualize myself
in the basement floor of a gigantic
skyscraper this is one huge corporation
all of the decisions are made on the top
floor I don't even get the elevator
access to the top floor I just work on
the bottom floor taking a paper stamping
it and moving it on to the next desk so
the the philosophy is I work here I'm a
worker among workers that's it yeah
there's enormous relief in that totally
and you don't and you timing is
different for everyone you know you just
don't know when things are going to
finally click and often I look at some
of the most successful people or people
I admired throughout history and it it
took a while for it to click usually if
I really admire the person like like
look at like a Winston Churchill like
that guy was like a kind of a joke
before he like uh you know assumed the
position he he did like I think he was
um stationed in Kolkata or something and
he he would he would like write letters
to his mom about his like you know War
experience in in World War I or
something and um this might have even
been pre pre-World War I but uh it might
have been like
Colonial um and uh his mom would like
kind of embellished them for like the
the the local paper or whatever and he
had like a stutter and he was just like
pale awkward guy I don't know there are
a lot of cases like that and uh I think
often the more failure precedes success
the more durable the success is I like
that yeah you sometimes sort of Channel
Rudolph Steiner I wanted to know if you
can do that around what I should do with
the show oh that's
interesting the show is a aberration in
the game plan of someone who is born
very um who was born very ambitious
perhaps too ambitiously for his own good
this uh this tendency had to be not
destroyed it just had to be uh worn down
corrected reworked revamped and taking
you through everything that by Nature
you would find out you would consider to
be a loss or a failure but actually it's
it's those events specifically that will
give you what you want which is an
independent ability to judge uh both
facts and
suppositions and a pleasure in bringing
that to the public you've lost uh your
most annoying quality which is a um kind
of holier than now attitude and you now
you you understand the SE the secret and
the secret is you don't know [__] number
one and number two um nobody can make
these decisions for you so the the
pathway is good for the show now what
you really mean to ask me is what's the
future of the show in terms of in
cultural and spiritual impact or power
and the answer to that is if you
continue to work as you have to uh
weaken or even nullify your own ego then
the answer to that question will become
apparent it'll come come from inside you
not through any
overt conscious uh thought process
process so your future is bright if you
don't use drugs or alcohol or maybe just
use
them no I don't want to tell any more
jokes all right that's it thank you Phil
I appreciate it man all right we come we
to come back at to dinner and get
through the second half of this if you
want to do
that as much as you want to do all
do okay that's a zero